# House-Price-Prediction
The goal of this problem is to use the power of Machine Learning algorithms to take the dataset of Property prices in Ames, Iowa and apply some analysis to understand and predict the price of houses in Ames, Iowa based on different qualitative and quantitative parameters. We are precisely going to leverage feature engineering and advanced regression techniques in the process of prediction. The objective of this project is to look at factors (other than height and area of the house) such as whether thehouse has a paved area, the year it was sold in, the type of sale it went through and many other parameters. The dataset consists information about houses Ames, Iowa and their Sale details in the time period between 2006 and 2010. It consists of 80 different attributes out of which 20 are continuous variables recording dimensional information of the house. There are 14 discrete variables which record the number of amenities present in the house such as bedrooms, bathrooms and kitchens. The dataset consists of numerous categorical variables categorizing the type of road access, the type of utilities available, the house style. The dataset is divided into train set with dimensionality of (1460 x 81) and test set with dimensionality of (1459 x 80). We are going to use in-built pyspark models such as Linear regression, decision tree regressor and possibly random forest regressor to predict the house prices.We have broken down our analysis into the following steps: 1. Introduction1.1About the Dataset1.2Data Preprocessing1.3Exploratory Analysis2. Methods2.1 Feature Selection2.2 Models Used3. Predictions and Conclusion
